midiConverter3

Change and convert between CC, Channel Pressure, Poly Aftertouch, Program Change, Pitch Bend, NRPN/RPN, Note On/Off, and other messages in various ways. Pitch Bend and (N)RPN conversions will use the full 14-bit values when possible.


Parameters:

--Input section--
Here you select an input message to convert.

Input Type - Incoming message to convert. See also "In Param 1" and "In Param 2" which further define the message. For note input types, note-offs and 0-velocity note-ons are treated interchangeably. For LSB modes, the low 7 bits of the 14-bit message are used as the input message. Options:
	CC
	14-bit CC
	Program Change
	Channel Pressure
	Poly Aftertouch
	Pitch Bend
	Pitch Bend (LSB)
	NRPN
	NRPN (LSB)
	RPN
	RPN (LSB)
	Note On #
	Note On Velocity
	Note Off #
	Note Off Velocity
	
In Param 1 - Selects input CC number, note number, or (N)RPN MSB.

In Param 2 - Selects input (N)RPN LSB.

Channel In - Selects input channel.


--Mapping section--
These parameters determine how the input values are mapped to output values. 

Low Input - Lowest allowed input value (except for Stretch/Stretch mode, see below). Low Input cannot be higher than High Input. If you try to set it that way, High Input will be automatically set equal to Low Input.

High Input - Highest allowed input value (except for Stretch/Stretch mode, see below). Low Input cannot be higher than High Input. If you try to set it that way, Low Input will be automatically set equal to High Input.

Map Mode - Options:
	Clip/Limit - Values outside Low & High Input are discarded; values inside are then limited to 
		Low & High Output.
	Clip/Stretch - Values outside Low & High Input are discarded; values inside are then 
		stretched or compressed to fit between Low & High Output.
	Stretch/Stretch - The full input range 0-127 is compressed to fit between Low & High Input
		and then is stretched or compressed again to fit between Low & High Output.

Low Output - Lowest possible output value. When Low Output is higher than High Output, the values are reversed, and this will be the highest output value.

High Output - Highest possible output value. When Low Output is higher than High Output, the values are reversed, and this will be the lowest output value.

Offset - This value is added to the output value after the above mapping.


--Output section--
Here you set what the input message is converted to. For 14-bit to 7-bit conversions, rounding is used. For 7-bit to 14-bit conversions, the input value is used for both bytes, except when the value is below 64, in which case the LSB is set to 0.

Output Type - Options:
	Discard - No conversion, just block the input message.
	CC - Mapped value will be used as the value of a CC message set by Out Param 1, optionally
		(set by Out Param 2) with smoothing.
	14-bit CC - Mapped value will be used as the value of a 14-bit CC message pair set by Out 			
		Param 1, optionally (set by Out Param 2) with smoothing.
	Program Change
	Channel Pressure
	Poly Aftertouch - Mapped value will be used as the value of a polyphonic aftertouch message 
		with note number set by Out 1.
	Pitch Bend - Mapped value will be used as the value of a pitch bend message, optionally (set 
		by Out Param 1) with smoothing.
	Pitch Bend (LSB) - Mapped value will be used as the LSB of a pitch bend message with MSB set 
		by Out Param 1.
	NRPN
	NRPN (LSB)
	RPN
	RPN (LSB)
	Note On # - Mapped value will be used as the note number for a note-on message with velocity 
		set by Out Param 1. Optionally (set by Out Param 2) also immediately send a
		corresponding note-off.
	Note On Velocity - Mapped value will be used as the velocity for a note-on message with note 
		number set by Out Param 1.
	Note Off # - Mapped value will be used as the note number for a note-off message with 
		velocity set by Out Param 1. 
	Note Off Velocity - Mapped value will be used as the velocity for a note-off message with 
		note number set by Out Param 1.
	Clock - Input message will trigger a MIDI Clock tick (0xF8).

Out Param 1 - Selects output CC number, note number, or (N)RPN MSB.

Out Param 2 - Selects output (N)RPN LSB, or Pitch Bend / CC smoothing amount.

Channel Out - Selects output channel.

Thru - What to do with other MIDI messages. Options:
	Block Converted - Unselected messages are sent through; selected input messages are blocked.
	Thru All - All messages are sent through, except for conversions where the output is the 
		same message as the input.	
	Converted Only - Unselected messages as well as selected input messages are blocked; only the 
		output messages are sent.
